All right, so in this particular
video, let's understand something
known as monolith architecture.
So monolith architecture is
actually a very common thing,
and that is something we
have been already doing.
Okay?
So till now you already have
a knowledge about horizontal
scaling, vertical scaling,
and how to scale databases.
Now let's understand what is this
monolith architecture, okay?
Now in reality, how the whole
workflow happens is that you
have a source code, right?
Now what is a source code?
Source code is something
that you write, that you
as a developer writes.
And what you do, you push
this particular source code
to the GitHub, right?
To your Git, GitHub or
whatever you are using.
Now this source code, which is
your Node JS course in our
case, has a lot of endpoints
and has a lot of services.
For example, if you're building an E
Commerce application, this source
code has authentication code.
It has all the payment code, it
has all the order code, it has all
the, let's say, payment, payment
processing order, and all
the emailing and notification code.
Now this code is packaged
into one single repository,
pushed onto the GitHub.
And then what you do, you basically
create a server out of it, right?
So let's say this is my server, okay?
So this is my server.
So you pull this particular
code from the GitHub.
And now this is a, server.
Let's say your application is
running on port number 80.
Now this particular port 80,
the server contains all the code
you can, your authentication
code, your payment code,
your orders code, and even
your, you know, emailing code.
All the code is in this
particular service.
Now this particular thing is known
as a monolith architecture because
everything is in single server.
Now what happens is, let's assume,
let's, you know, take something
that this order service is
something which is very busy.
Let's take, because authentication
is not that busy, because let's
say users have already signed up,
they are not doing something.
Payments are also okay.
It is not that much.
But orders is something
which is actually very
overwhelming coming, okay?
People are fetching their
orders again and again.
And it is a very, very, very
expensive and very, you
know, highly used route.
Now what happens is, because
people are making a lot of request
on the order service, your
server is getting overwhelmed.
You have to horizontally
scale your server.
So see, what I'm doing is
I'm basically horizontally
scaling my server, right?
And now what will happen because
I'm doing a horizontal scaling,
you need some kind of a,
reverse proxy, a load balancer.
So let's say nginx is
our load balancer.
So your request basically
goes to this nginx.
Not from the GitHub.
My basically the users will interact
from NGINX and NGINX will
load balance these servers.
Now, understand one thing.
In this particular architecture,
because it was a monolith
architecture, all these
servers have same code.
Now, even your AUTH server,
AUTH service has six codes.
Your payment also has six instances.
Your order also has six instances.
Just because you wanted to scale
the order service, you actually have
to scale all the servers at once.
Because we are here following the,
monolith architecture.
So monolith architecture is
basically, that is all your
code into one single code
base deployed on a server.
And then when you want to scale, you
basically scale the whole server.
So there is no segregation behind
the services, right in between
services, there is no segregation.
Everything is just one.
If you want to scale out,
you have to scale everything.
If you want to scale in, you have
to scale in everything.
So this is known as
a monolith architecture.
There are very common practices.
A lot of companies use this monolith
architecture because it is simpler
to implement and, you know,
it gives scaling out of the box.
And in the next particular
video, let's understand
the reverse of monolith.
Like, how can we break this
particular thing, monolith, and what
that thing is known as?